>> Jason Rodriguez: I tools.
There's a couple of different tools out
there that can help you build these
campaigns, a lot easier than you typically
would if you're just coding from scratch.
Litmus Builder's our own dedicated,
essentially an ID and a build tool for
email developers.
You can code directly in your browser,
and you can see all those previews on
the right-hand side which makes
testing those things really quick.
But one of the couple of things that I
really like about Builder that you can
mimic in other platforms, but
it's sometimes not as easily is we have
the concept of partials and
snippets built in.
So it acts as this build tool,
you can pull in partial in,
code blocks from this library that you
build up over time and just have that.
It'll say curly brace, curly brace,
header, and it'll just pull that in.
So if you're building a lot of different
emails then you can update that in one
place, that header partial.
And that'll propagate across
all those different campaigns.
You can sort those snippets so
as you're starting to use more of
these code snippets, you don't have
to recreate the wheel every time.
You don't have to code them from scratch.
A lot of other cool things, we integrate
with PSP, stuff like that, but
definitely a helpful tool that says I
think behind Dreamweaver which is select
the number one tool for email developers.
This the number two tool
that people are using for
email development which was good to see.
You might be surprised that people are
using Dreamweaver but I think it's that
design view that they have, they have
the code view and the design view.
So people are kind of clicking
around that wizard type editor,
seem to enjoy that for
building email campaigns.
I know there are a couple of questions
about like frameworks to try to
abstract away some of
the like boilerplate stuff or
some of the hacks that we
have to worry about in email.
So there are a couple of tools that
are out there out there that are really
polished, really cool for
developing campaigns faster.
My favorite is this MJML, which stands for
Mailchimp markup language.
So mail is an ESP.
So they do send me emails,
but they've invested a lot
in the tooling of their ESP.
So they came up with this MJML
framework that allows you to abstract
away the underlying HTML and
sometimes the CSS of your campaign.
So you can see on the left
here on the code editor,
this is the kind of
playground on their website.
They have great documentation,
it has ton of cool features, but
you can see it uses these MGMM or
MJ tags to build out this email so
they have a lot of different components.
Those modules we were talking about,
already built in and
it's kind of like an free email but
this will compile down to actual HTML and
CSS that you can send with anybody.
So that's the beauty of it,
it abstracts away some of that stuff.
But you still get HTML and
CSS that you can send to anybody
using any tool at the end of the day.
It's cool that you can extend those
tags and create your own components so
you can still work with that
underlying code that's generated and
build your own components.
By the thing about any of these tools
these frameworks is that you're kinda
stuck into how they build email campaigns.
So you don't have full control over
what it's actually generating and
what that output happens to be.
So this is good for a lot of uses but
if you're building something
that's really like bespoke and
customized version of an email, hand
coding is still probably the way to go.
Similar to MJML is Foundation, so
is anybody familiar with Foundation?
It's like a log framework, pretty popular,
kinda like a Twitter Bootstrap.
So they have an email version of this.
It used to be called Inky.
They still have their templating
languages called Inky but it's all about
doing a similar thing where they abstract
away a lot of that underlying code and
make it easy for
you to develop campaigns really quickly.
So Inky is our template in language.
It's very close to MJML format or
those amp tags that you would see, but
it just does it in the foundation's
own way and it's very similar to you,
the web framework version of Foundation.
So if you're familiar with it,
using Foundation for
emails is a pretty lightweight,
easy way to go.
One of the newer ones that
I'm super impressed with and
wanna play around more
with is called Maizzle.
So Maizzle is similar to
those other frameworks, but
it takes things a step further and
takes it closer to that web world.
So it's like this entire build process.
You can have JavaScript config files, you
can pull in different packages from NPM,
stuff like that to automate
a lot of this building and
work at more into your
typical web tooling.
It's interesting too because they
use tailwind CSS which is a really
cool functional CSS framework,
that allows you to really abstract
away a lot of this styling, and
use classes to build out these
custom styles for your components.
But Maizzle's relatively new,
I think it was released maybe a year ago,
if not less than that.
But, it's super interesting
because it's super powerful, and
has a lot of these kind of head on since
they can all do really cool things with.
By any three of those
are really interesting.
There's other tools out there
as well that are similar, but
I would definitely say that, MGML,
Foundation and Maizzle are kind of
the pinnacle of these frameworks that you
can use for developing email campaigns.
Tons of resources, you're all officially
email geeks now because you sat through,
what, eight hours of me talking
about email design development.
So it's time to go congregate
with your fellow email geeks,
and the best place to do that today
is this email geek slack channel.
So just go to email.geeks.chat.
You have to submit a quick invitation, but
I think there are automatically
allowing people into this point.
But there's thousands of different
peaks in there all talking about email,
there's channels for
literally anything your career stuff
your code Your Design
different events out there.
You can obviously private message
with other fellow email geeks, but
this is an amazing super active
resource for email developers when you
run into some of those issues or
trying to troubleshoot a problem.
You want to talk about a new technique or
something like that.
This is usually the first place people
go to discuss that kind of stuff.
A lot of people in there
try to be active in it.
I definitely lurk as much
as I possibly can and
try to jump into
conversations when possible.
But tons of smart people that are knee
deep in email every single day,
that are ready and willing to help you
out with any issues you might have.
Similar to that we have our own community,
our sort of forums and
resources on Litmus that are free to use,
free to access columnist.com/community.
So there's tons of discussions about,
there's thousands of different
discussions about troubleshooting issues,
different design techniques, industry
news, opinions on tools, stuff like that.
There's a lot of code out there,
too, that you can access for free.
So we have these snippets that
just collect specific things.
So if you want an example of a bulletproof
button, you can go on there and search for
buttons and see those different examples.
There's templates up there that
are full fledged templates,
fully designed that you can download for
free and use and adapt as needed.
And then if you're looking for a job in
the industry, we do have a free job board.
It's free to post.
We have a bunch of different
cool companies posting there,
trying to target the email geeks community
and get some smart people on there.
So there's definitely some
cool opportunities up there.
And I'm always surprised when we see
really interesting companies like
Twitter or somebody like that will
be posting jobs for Email Geeks,
which was really cool to see.
I have my own set of resources.
It's at TheBetter.Email/resources.
So The Better Email is of
the books that I publish and
of course that I published
a few years ago at this point.
So it's the better email on design.
But I try to maintain this list of
resources that you can access for free.
It's kind of my personal bookmarking
site for anything email related.
So I have categories for people on the.
I have categories for code examples,
tools, ESPs, articles, books and courses.
So it's a good place to go if you wanna
dig deeper into some of these topics,
especially from, I talked a little bit
about how email's cool because it's
forgettable and we don't have
a lot documented for posterity.
But this is a good place to go.
I have a bunch of articles and stuff
that discuss these different techniques.
We've seen like hybrid coding,
like interactive email, and
it has a bunch of older articles
that go into the first inklings
of how this stuff was developed
through to modern techniques.
So it's pretty cool, I try to
update it as much as I possibly can
as I come across new resources and
try to add them to the list there.
TheBetter.Email/resources, definitely
check that out.
All that stuff is linked
to that GitHub repos balls,
bunch of as well as
a bunch of other stuff.
And then again, grab the code.
We saw this earlier.
It's up on codepen as a collection
you all have access to.
Definitely check that out it because
that's a good way to dig deeper in
this code and
then tie it right back to what we've been
discussing throughout this workshop today.